README.md, before:

## Pedagogical considerations for simulation-based inference in a large-enrollment introductory biostatistics course.

#### Authors:
Matthew Beckman (Penn State University)  
Kari Lock Morgan (Penn State University)

#### Abstract:

This presentation discusses steps taken to integrate simulation-based inference (SBI) methods into an introductory biostatistics course. An overview of the course structure is provided, as well as pedagogical considerations relevant to SBI in a large enrollment context for undergraduate students in life science majors. Specific topics include use of inquiry-based framework, a complementary approach to SBI and non-SBI methods in order to emphasize conceptual understanding, and strategies for accommodating--perhaps even benefiting from--large enrollment for this type of course.  Lastly, the presentation will compare and contrast this course with other approaches to introductory statistics using SBI.

#### Slides: [(Link)](SBI_Slides_Beckman.pdf)


## GAISEing at a lecture hall: effective pedagogy in large-enrollment courses.

#### Author:
Matthew Beckman (Penn State University)

#### Abstract: 

There is a rich body of research in Statistics Education studying efficient pedagogy, particularly in the introductory statistics curriculum, but much of this work has occurred in the context of smaller class sizes.  At many institutions, introductory statistics course(s) frequently occur in a large-enrollment face-to-face setting where recommended pedagogy (beyond perhaps clickers & think-pair-share) can seem daunting.  The 2016 update to the ASA endorsed Guidelines for Assessment and Instruction in Statistics Education (GAISE) College Report now includes expanded coverage of this subject.  This roundtable will discuss experiences with implementation of the 2016 GAISE recommendations in large-enrollment face-to-face courses, share successes and challenges, and explore additional strategies to improve teaching, learning, and engagement in large-enrollment classes.  Such topics may include integration of active learning, student use of technology, and student engagement during "lecture" periods as well as ideas for achieving balance between a rich project experience and a sensible grading load.

#### Handout: [(Link)](GaiseLargeEnrollmentRoundtable.pdf)

Commit message:

blog post on JSM page

README.md, after:

## Pedagogical considerations for simulation-based inference in a large-enrollment introductory biostatistics course.

#### Authors:
Matthew Beckman (Penn State University)  
Kari Lock Morgan (Penn State University)

#### Abstract:

This presentation discusses steps taken to integrate simulation-based inference (SBI) methods into an introductory biostatistics course. An overview of the course structure is provided, as well as pedagogical considerations relevant to SBI in a large enrollment context for undergraduate students in life science majors. Specific topics include use of inquiry-based framework, a complementary approach to SBI and non-SBI methods in order to emphasize conceptual understanding, and strategies for accommodating--perhaps even benefiting from--large enrollment for this type of course.  Lastly, the presentation will compare and contrast this course with other approaches to introductory statistics using SBI.

#### Slides: [(Link)](SBI_Slides_Beckman.pdf)


#### Subsequent SBI Blog Post

Following this JSM talk a short summary piece was prepared for the Simulation-Based Statistical Inference blog <https://www.causeweb.org/sbi/> highlighting stategies for teaching SBI in large lecture classes.  [Here's a PDF version](largeClassSBI.pdf).


## GAISEing at a lecture hall: effective pedagogy in large-enrollment courses.

#### Author:
Matthew Beckman (Penn State University)

#### Abstract: 

There is a rich body of research in Statistics Education studying efficient pedagogy, particularly in the introductory statistics curriculum, but much of this work has occurred in the context of smaller class sizes.  At many institutions, introductory statistics course(s) frequently occur in a large-enrollment face-to-face setting where recommended pedagogy (beyond perhaps clickers & think-pair-share) can seem daunting.  The 2016 update to the ASA endorsed Guidelines for Assessment and Instruction in Statistics Education (GAISE) College Report now includes expanded coverage of this subject.  This roundtable will discuss experiences with implementation of the 2016 GAISE recommendations in large-enrollment face-to-face courses, share successes and challenges, and explore additional strategies to improve teaching, learning, and engagement in large-enrollment classes.  Such topics may include integration of active learning, student use of technology, and student engagement during "lecture" periods as well as ideas for achieving balance between a rich project experience and a sensible grading load.

#### Handout: [(Link)](GaiseLargeEnrollmentRoundtable.pdf)
